Hash-Tables-UMPIRE-Cheat-Sheet.md, before:

### Definition

* A hash table is a data structure that stores keys and values associated with unique keys. If two keys are indexed at the same location, a collision occurs.
* A hash table is unordered.
* A **Hash Set** is an implementation of a [Set](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Set.html) interface that does not allow storing of any duplicate values. In Python, there is a built-in [set()](https://docs.python.org/2/library/sets.html) collection. 
* A **Hash Map** is an implementation of a [Map](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Map.html) interface that allows key/value pairs. Each key must be unique, but values may be duplicated. In Python, we use [dictionaries](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries) which act in a similar manner as Hash Maps.  

### U-nderstand

*What are some common questions we should ask our interviewer?*

* Are there memory constraints?
* What’s the required time complexity?
* What kind of data will the inputs be?
* Can I assume all the inputs will be valid?
* What if the input is empty?
* What should we return if there is no solution to the problem?
* What should we return if there are multiple solutions to the problem?

### M-atch

*Are there any special techniques that we can use to help make this easier?*

* Hash tables are typically used to solve string/array or tree problems. 
* They can be used for grouping or joining data together by some common attribute
* Common problems that use Hash Tables:
  * Finding duplicates
  * Finding the sum
  * Remove the least recently used (LRU) item
  * Mapping one input to another
  * Construct Binary Tree from Preorder and Inorder Traversal
  * Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree
* Hash tables cannot be used with O(1) space complexity if you are given other data structures as inputs

### P-lan/Pseudocode

* Can you create any **magic** helper methods that would simplify the solution? (ie `items()`, `keys()`, `setdefault()`, `sorted()`)
* Talk through different approaches you can take, and their tradeoffs
* Be able to verbally describe your approach and explain how an example input would produce the desired output

**Tips:**

* Try to avoid nested loops
  * This is usually a brute force solution and is O(n²) time complexity


### E-valuate

#### Time Complexity

|            | Best Case | Worst Case |
|------------|-----------|------------|
| Lookup 	   | O(1)      | O(N)       |
| Insert     | O(1)      | O(N)       |
| Delete     | O(1)      | O(N)       |

**Note:** Best cases assume that there are no collisions, worst cases assume that every entry is a collision

Commit message:

Address confusion from naming the best vs worse case and the idea of big-O notation.

Hash-Tables-UMPIRE-Cheat-Sheet.md, after:

### Definition

* A hash table is a data structure that stores keys and values associated with unique keys. If two keys are indexed at the same location, a collision occurs.
* A hash table is unordered.
* A **Hash Set** is an implementation of a [Set](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Set.html) interface that does not allow storing of any duplicate values. In Python, there is a built-in [set()](https://docs.python.org/2/library/sets.html) collection. 
* A **Hash Map** is an implementation of a [Map](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Map.html) interface that allows key/value pairs. Each key must be unique, but values may be duplicated. In Python, we use [dictionaries](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries) which act in a similar manner as Hash Maps.  

### U-nderstand

*What are some common questions we should ask our interviewer?*

* Are there memory constraints?
* What’s the required time complexity?
* What kind of data will the inputs be?
* Can I assume all the inputs will be valid?
* What if the input is empty?
* What should we return if there is no solution to the problem?
* What should we return if there are multiple solutions to the problem?

### M-atch

*Are there any special techniques that we can use to help make this easier?*

* Hash tables are typically used to solve string/array or tree problems. 
* They can be used for grouping or joining data together by some common attribute
* Common problems that use Hash Tables:
  * Finding duplicates
  * Finding the sum
  * Remove the least recently used (LRU) item
  * Mapping one input to another
  * Construct Binary Tree from Preorder and Inorder Traversal
  * Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Tree
* Hash tables cannot be used with O(1) space complexity if you are given other data structures as inputs

### P-lan/Pseudocode

* Can you create any **magic** helper methods that would simplify the solution? (ie `items()`, `keys()`, `setdefault()`, `sorted()`)
* Talk through different approaches you can take, and their tradeoffs
* Be able to verbally describe your approach and explain how an example input would produce the desired output

**Tips:**

* Try to avoid nested loops
  * This is usually a brute force solution and is O(n²) time complexity


### E-valuate

#### Time Complexity

When using a hashmap assume O(1) for lookup, insert, and delete. Only in special cases, like maxing out the hashmap results in an O(n) time complexity due to collision on every insert. Note that Lookup and Delete is still O(1), because we don't need to check every possible key for an opening to insert item into hashmap. 

|            | Usual Case | Maxed Hashmap Case |
|------------|-----------|------------|
| Lookup 	   | O(1)      | O(1)       |
| Insert     | O(1)      | O(N)       |
| Delete     | O(1)      | O(1)       |

**Note:** Usual case assume that there are no collisions, maxed hashmap case assume that every entry is a collision
